# What is Cloud Foundry? Key Benefits
Keep this in mind, the platform layer should be able to provide the following features:

## What is a cloud computing platform
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), which helps to reduce application development overhead (i.e. environment configuration) by providing a ready-to-user platform. PaaS services can be hosted on top of infrastructure provided by an IaaS.

Keep this in mind, the platform layer should be able to provide the following features:
- A suitable environment to run an application.
- Application life cycle management.
- Centralized management of applications.
- A distributed environment.
- Easy integration.
- Easy maintenance (such as upgrades, patches, etc.).

## What is Cloud Foundry?
Cloud Foundry is an open source cloud computing platform originally developed in-house at VMware. It is now owned by Pivotal Software, which is a joint venture made up of VMware, EMC and General Electric.

Cloud Foundry is optimized to deliver:
- Fast application development and deployment
- Highly scalable and available architecture.
- DevOps-friendly workflows.
- A reduced chance of human error.
- Multi-tenant compute efficiencies.

## What are the key benefits of Cloud Foundry?
- Application portability
- Application auto-scaling
- Centralized platform administration
- Centralized logging
- Dynamic routing
- Application health management
- Integeration with external logging components
- Role-based access for deployed applications
- Provision for vertical and horizontal scaling
- Infrastructure security
- Support for various IaaS providers

## Getting started with Cloud Foundry
To set up a suitable environment you will first need an infrastructure layer. As of June 2019, Cloud Foundry runs on AWS, Azure, Google Compute Platform (GCP), OpenStack, VMware vSphere, Softlayer, and others.

## Hosting static files in Cloud Foundry
Once you've created your account and set up the command line interface (CLI), you'll be ready to deploy your application. We're going to use some static files, which means we'll need one folder and a few html files. Make sure there's an index.html file among them.

Normally, deploying static files requires a webserver like Apache or Nginx. But we're not going to have to worry about that - the platform will automatically take care of any internet-facing configuration we'll need. You only need to push your application files to the CloudFoundry environment and everything else will be take care of.

Now, copy the folder with your files to the machine where you've installed the CLI and log in to the CLI using this API endpoint:

`cf login -a https://api.run.pivotal.io`

You may need to provide some information:
1. Username
2. Password
3. Organization name
4. Space

Once successfully logged in you will be able to run CloudFoundry commands using cf. Start with cf help to check all available commands.

`cf help`

Now go to your application folder and create file called Staticfile using:

`touch Staticfile`

Push the appliation using:

`cf push <<application file name>>`

You will want to verify that the app is running by using the URL generated from the output of the previous step.

That's it! You've gotten started with CloudFoundry and can continue to explore how it frees you and your teams from infrastructure overhead.
